what is up welcome in today's and he
explained I'll be covering a quick recap
than a deep dive explanation of the
outstanding sci-fi thriller contact in
which a discovery of an intergalactic
signal changes everything we know about
the universe written by thee OG
astrophysicist who literally sent a
golden disc for aliens on the Voyager
and based on the book of the same name
it's an inspiring heart-wrenching
underdog story that doesn't end the way
you'd expect it now you know the drill
for these videos after the recap I'll be
explaining the ending in everything
mind-bending about this movie and you
can find the time sense for that in the
description below I'll definitely be
covering what Ellie Sean our journey
through the wormhole and why the
government reacted the way it did and
also some other points but if the ending
of this movie made you think what that's
how it ends just you wait because at
first I'm going to change your mind my
goal is to get you thinking that ending
was actually perfect after that we're
going deeper if you watch this movie and
you were thinking what the hell is wrong
with these aliens are like trolling us
or if you hated the hokey religious
message at the end stick around because
we have this video I'm going to prove to
you what really happened and the genius
of this movie and of Carl Sagan contact
has inspired a generation of artists and
scientists alike and for a good reason
we are diving deep into this one if you
want to skip the recap the time stone
for the explanation is on screen now
this is contact now there's this girl
little Ellie Arroway she's in the space
lives of her dad and this little batty
is a licensed ham radio operator
callsign in everything diary yome dad's
very supportive she draws a picture of
Pensacola for him and we find out her
mom died and then her dad dies too yeah
this movie starts off brutal poor little
Ellie even tries to contact his spirit
on the radio and it's so heartbreaking
but also like and I don't mean to be a
dick here that's not proper protocol you
know there are some damn operators out
there triangulating and reporting her as
we speak
I guess she made it through radio Jail
because now she's all grown up and her
job is
space radios yeah uh working for SETI
search for extraterrestrial intelligence
in Puerto Rico
she's trying to listen in for signals to
find proof that aliens are out there
which is pretty kooky but uh okay you do
you girl you live in your best life I
mean it's not like she's actually gonna
find some in this movie right
anyway she meets this really handsome
guy named Palmer Josh a Christian writer
who knows enough about science that he
can keep up with Ellie and talk science
and faith and all kinds of things and
well she's impressed he's impressed
they're both an attractive man and woman
on screen together in a movie yep one
thing leads to another and they make
contact yeah you heard me but there's
trouble you see there's this Butthead
named dr. drumlin in oh my god I hate
this guy and this movie really makes you
want to get your hands around this guy's
neck so many times like the first thing
he does in this movie is he shuts down
studies operation in Puerto Rico like an
absolute prick leaving everyone just
scrambling to get a foothold so Ellie
somehow secures funding from an unseen
rich guy and is able to take her team to
New Mexico to work at the Very Large
Array Thank You Velma if I have better
luck over there but for you to do
they're having the worst luck they're
not picking up any signals and drumlin
is still being a pain in the butt trying
to get them kicked out of the Large
Array oh I'm so piece of garbage piece
of sh and now Ellie's getting worried
because she knows if this goes on she
could lose the chance to make history
forever and so she goes it alone trying
to listen for a sign from above and
that's when something changes as she's
listening to her headphones there's this
weird signal that she hasn't heard
before and realizes what it is it's here
she crushes back to the office to figure
out if this is a real alien signal it is
it's a signal coming from the vaguest
are 26 light years away broadcasting the
secrets of prime numbers again and again
something intelligent is out there this
is huge
Ellie tells the world and everyone wants
to know reporters the army scientists
signed
apologists my grandma everyone on top of
that the NSA said Michael Kitz to meet
Ellie this guy is always very serious
very professional and very good at his
job
he doesn't like all this alien signal
business because you know these aliens
might be a threat so this guy with
tromelin are trying to learn more about
this signal they loaded up on a TV
monitor and it's a bit hard to tell so
they try zooming out and oh it's a
black-and-white broadcast of everyone's
a favorite leader of Germany at the
Olympics retro Nazi aliens this can't be
good boy there's a way to explain this
you see the 1936 Olympics was one of the
first television signals to be
broadcasted at a frequency high enough
to reach space so this is just the alien
saying we heard you okay thank God the
aliens are not Nazis or are they no no
just kidding
they're not right so news of the signal
reaches the president in the White House
sets of this group to deal with all of
this
choosing drumlin to lead this committee
who's taken credit for finding the
signal what a prick
now the reactions to all this by
everyone else is very very mixed I mean
you got people making jokes protests
fear obviously dancing and singing as
well as religious nuts going off on
scientists in even people trying to make
money off of the trend all they're
missing are the memes and it would be a
hundred percent realistic now the team
manages to figure out that this signal
has another third layer to it build of
diagrams in code that no one can figure
out none less smart people to the White
House has honest candy coat it it's
unbreakable except after Ellie goes home
she gets a tip from this really
eccentric billionaire named SR Hadden
this guy is wild he's been keeping tabs
on her and her dad for years now
controlling and making her the person
she would become today all from his
airplane home heck he was the one who
got her the money for Mexico
this guy is invested in her and the day
he's got a gift the Primmer the key to
understanding the COPE because he knows
what it is a set of 3d blueprints Ellie
of course tells the committee about this
and they start to get worried and
nervous about the blueprints I mean it's
great that they know what it is now but
they have no idea what it does or why it
was even sent
I mean sure they build it what if it's a
weapon what if it's dangerous is this
sort of thinking that stops them from
even building it even with Ali trying to
tell them you know we should be open
about this maybe it's not a weapon maybe
it's a library or an encyclopedia or
even a transporter and guess what Elly
is right the blueprints are for a
transporter big enough to fit someone
inside of it the aliens want to meet us
what do you think it all it took for us
to meet was to send a video of this
failed Austrian artist now word gets out
about this and the world learns about
this plan we send a human through the
transporter and it becomes a competition
to be the one to make first contact with
ten people from around the world
competing to be that person including
Ellie drumlin it's like The Bachelor but
with green little men oh and Jared
Palmer Joss yeah well he's back in all
his life now because he's a part of the
committee that's choosing the person
who's gonna go through the transporter
and he also still has a thing for Ally
and he doesn't want it to go in very
CUTE Palmer very cute since the machine
opens up an einstein-rosen bridge a
wormhole that will mess with time in
space if she goes in and comes back
maybe everyone she knows and loves will
be dead or she might not even come back
at all
really think about Ellie and I actually
want to talk a bit more about this
wormhole thing but let's get to that
later because yeah the risks are bad
like really really bad and Ellie still
wants to go nothing's gonna keep this
girl down but she doesn't get picked
because and get this because she doesn't
believe in God since 95% of the world is
religious the committee thinks she's a
bad fit she doesn't represent most of us
which okay I can accept but do you know
who actually gets the job tromelin this
garbage person lies and plays up his
religious beliefs in front of the
committee even though it's obvious that
he's just doing this for the rep for the
fame and for the credit and for all the
money and all that jazz it's crazy
hey there's perfectly suitable candidate
who not only found a signal in the first
place but it has also been invested in
this for years and has also trust with
me because she's honest about her
beliefs but because of that they choose
this guy unbelievable and that's another
thing throughout this movie there is
this theme of humans being arrogant like
they do things they believe is right
regardless of their expertise sometimes
it's disbelief that scientists are evil
because they're against religion
sometimes they make it about themselves
rather than the science like drumlin
who's now also a candidate so he will be
getting full credit after meeting the
aliens uh oh and of course there's
Michael Kitz who's wanted to keep
America safe stop Sulu see this as a
good thing wanted to keep it under wraps
and safe and this arrogance is reflected
in other things like the blueprint
because the original pod design did not
have this chair in it but whoever made
the pod decided to add one anyway it
shows arrogance in our part you know
like we would know what's best to add or
remove in an alien machine of a sheen
mind you that we didn't even want to
build in the first place absolutely
ridiculous
anyway the transporter gets built right
but then this crazy preacher blows it up
killing innocent people and drumlin I
mean them I know it's not right to speak
ill of the dead but could be fairly said
Bezos who I mean Adhan is there to help
her out telling her there's a backup
sign in Japan and hadn't want you to go
to the machine that also helps that they
want an American to go through to go
figure but when she gets there things
are tense as they get ready for this
they're giving her cyanide pills just in
case she doesn't make it back and even
launch commanders to be believed they've
only got one shot at this so uh no
pressure Ellie all she has to do is get
into the pod strapped into the chair and
get ready but something goes wrong as
the Machine starts powering up and maybe
it's due to electromagnetic radiation
but the floor becomes see-through the
radio the pod camera goes on the fritz
and Ellie begins seeing these strange
lights and that's just on the inside on
the outside the pod the machine is a
building on this really bright light
crane the strong gravitational pull on
the outside like it's strong able to
knock over these big ships nearby in
this building things are getting out of
hand very quickly and Ellie's like no I
can do this so they let her go dropping
her into this ball of light made by the
Machine and that's when gravity goes
weird and the chair breaks off and at
least sees herself being dropped into
what looks like a wormhole going on a
journey across the galaxy like a tourist
on a bus seeing all kinds of things
great big stars a huge city on an
planet in this giant machine and so much
more it's also beautiful they should
have sent the poet she blacks out and
wakes up on the beach that looks like
that draws Schmidt for her dad years ago
and only finds out that the air here
shimmers when she touches it at least
sometimes then for the other said the
beach comes this shape it's an alien who
slowly becomes her dad so this is a
vagin and the reason why it looks like
this is to make Elly feel comfortable I
wouldn't want to scare if it's true from
I guess this guy starts talking about
these and we learn a lot from him like
how the aliens didn't create the
transporter they were just like us and
got the plans from an even older race
there's also a lot more aliens out there
who haven't been allowed to interact
with humans this is more of a courtesy
call a quick hello there neighbor to let
us know that we aren't alone in the
universe and that we're not ready to
join the neighborhood yet this beach is
awaiting all this was just the first
step towards doing the vacants and we'll
need to take the second step if we want
to join the rest of them and he leaves
Ellie with some wisdom humans are
capable of such beautiful dreams and
such horrible nightmares you feel so
lost and alone but you're not the only
thing that makes that emptiness bearable
is each other one day we'll be ready but
it's gonna take a few steps to get there
small moves Ellie small moves
it's a beautiful trippy moment almost
like a dream and much like a dream it
ends I'll be waking up back in the pod
on earth and she's confused she was gone
for eighteen hours but according to the
crew the Machine failed the PATA didn't
go anywhere and here camera only
recorded static but we shot she went
through right
disk it's any sent to court because
people want to know what happened but no
one believes her story she's nothing to
prove it and he's even open to the
chance that maybe she'd dreamed the
whole thing up but maybe she was seeing
things but she believes it happened now
with no proof Ellie gets chewed out but
if that guide kits accusing her of
seeing things and now this transporter
thing was a prank played in the world by
Hadden how ironic of the very alien she
believed in would leave her no evidence
to prove they existed all she has his
faith in her experiences like a
Christian or something now sometime
after the trial Michael Kitz speaks to a
white house whip that talk about what
Ellie said because her camera recorded
eight
hours of static meaning she was telling
the truth and the government is covering
it up 18 months later and at least
reputation isn't as bad as it once was
she's still working for Shetty at the
larger raid and is left knowing in her
heart that what she saw was real all she
can do is wait until we take that second
step so let's get into the explanation
I'm going to first be talking about what
happened in the ending with Elly's
journey explaining the transporter what
she saw as well as the government's
reaction and a lot more before
explaining the movie's themes and then
about the sides of the movie and the man
behind the movie finishing off by
getting into the why the aliens are
doing all this in the first place
messing with us like that and explained
the second step for Humanity and why the
transportation network was built so what
happened the ending it's pretty clear
that she travelled through a wormhole
and found herself in a galaxy far far
away being taken to another place by the
machine the 18 hours of static is proof
that she was taking somewhere else like
she said and those 18 hours were
squished into an instant by what is
known as a wormhole a thing that might
exist out in space that connects two
points together like a shortcut that
makes time get messy making it speed up
or slow down for the person inside the
hole along them the time drove what I
think happened after the beach was that
Ellie was put back into the pod and sent
back to the moment she was taken using a
different wormhole to make it seem like
no time passed this is why do people on
earth it seemed like she didn't leave
the inside of the pod and were taken to
another part of the universe now I'm
very confident that she wasn't seeing
things like Michael said yes it is true
that when the machine was starting up at
least saw the floor turns see through
because of electromagnetic radiation
something that a real life can make you
see things but we have the 18 hours of
static that proves she went somewhere
else busting this idea that she was just
seeing things now there might be a
chance that it was all a holodeck or a
simulation inside the pod and that she
never actually left it because when she
gets onto the beach there is this weird
effect in the air when she reaches her
hand out almost like someone blocking a
projector or hitting an invisible wall
inside a video game on the topic of
seeing things at least saw a lot on her
journey like stars and planets but she
also saw a city and the stranger machine
that we only get a glimpse at but
there's this moment where she clearly
sees something very beautiful and
inspirational but the movie doesn't show
it the book explains
the city she saw was where the vacants
live and the Machine she sees it's like
a satellite or telescope part of an
alien SETI program created by the aliens
who built the transporter the catch any
signals be send their way
connecting the transporter to a larger
network not that you could tell from
what little they do show to us
it sucks this movie doesn't make it
clear but it makes sense this movie is
about showing us how you would react to
everything we focused more on how Ellie
reacts to the sheer coolness of the
universe and giving us clear answers or
showing off more of what's being shown
would only soften the impact and that
actually brings me to a central theme of
the movie the human reaction this movie
isn't your normal 90s sci-fi flick it's
definitely no alien and it's definitely
no Independence Day it's not meant to
have a Disney slash superhero ending or
things and sweetly it's about real
people reacting realistically as we see
in the movie humans go a little crazy
over this amazing new discovery but
there's also an ugly side in real life
we would see politicians using this to
further their agenda and keep themselves
in power we would have you of ologists
and people who talk about secret plots
and schemes celebrate this and we'd also
see people just shrug and get on with
their lives or in the case of
governments and officials you would have
security advisers like Michael Kitz who
would cover this whole thing up in the
name of national security as I said this
summer the guy's a professional and he
only wants to keep his people in nations
safe and there we have that ending where
things covered up but the truth is no
twist some few if it was any other 90s
sci-fi movie we'd see some cool as stuff
we'd go into the future like a thousand
years from now and we'd see a society
has changed or maybe we would
fast-forward to the time we take that
second step and have like at least super
great granddaughter meet the aliens
something's satisfying and just but
there's no Hollywood ending this one
repose no punches it's meant to be
realistic it's meant to make you think
but okay honestly even with that it's a
real dick move that these aliens decided
to troll led by sending her all of these
things but making it hard for her to
prove their existence it makes me wonder
why the unions in the movie would do
this as well as why it would end with a
hokey religious message but I think I
read an answer for that which I will get
to in a bit because first I want to
answer a few questions that might have
been undermined
like couldn't they prove Ellie was right
by using the Machine again do you think
so but both the book and the movie
confirm that this would not be possible
in the movie we hear the launch
commander say we've already got one shot
at this meeting it's a one-time deal
as far as using it goes adding on to
that the book explains that the
transporter is a two-way street in the
alien
are closing their end off so even if you
used it no one would get sent anywhere
we'd have to wait until we make that
second stamp like the alien dad said
question two how come we saw everyone's
favorite dictator of Germany being sent
back to us like the worst game of
telephone so the answer given the movie
is that it was one of the first
broadcasts to leave the planet Earth the
Germans did that as a way to prove their
strength and technical abilities and
apparently it managed to reach the
vacants who sent it back since they are
26 light years away it would take 26
years to get there in another 26 they
send it back with a few years in between
the planet the prime number and
transporter signal the way it works is
that by being at a high frequency a TV
broadcast could break through a layer
the atmosphere and go to outer space
radio waves can travel pretty fast once
outside the atmosphere but this in real
life is not likely to happen as that
layer called the atmosphere gets blasted
if UV rays which can mess with signals
and that broadcast was sent out at 40
megahertz at a low power even if it got
past the ionosphere it would become so
quiet that the evenings wouldn't know
what it said even if they understood
German question 3 what is a harmonic
overlap signal how does the signal
encoding work I'm cutting out a lot of
details but radio works by sending out
what is known as a carrier wave you put
a signal of voice on top of another
signal which changes the shape letting
you send out messages and info that
makes sense and not sound like gibberish
in the movie the TV broadcast was at
double the frequency which gave it a
unique harmonic sound and the blueprints
were hidden in extra frames the original
broadcast was 25 frames per second and
the aliens included another 25 between
those with a blueprint information
hidden and the almost like an easter egg
that can be detected it when you play
the signal back like how in Fight Club
there are several moments before he meet
him that you can spot Tyler Durden for a
split second question for how does the
time dilation thing Palmer Joss
mentioned work there is this thing
called the twins paradox it's this
thought experiment that thinks about
what happens if you had two twins the
exact same in every way but one is on a
rocket and the others left on earth the
rocket moves almost at the speed of
light leaves and returns to earth in
when the twin gets back he finds that
his brother is now older than him it's a
funny korkut adulation based on
Einstein's special theory of relativity
if you go really fast last time passes
for you but in this movie it's the
opposite Ellie experiences a lot of time
when only a short instant passes on
earth a few years ago Neil deGrasse
Tyson on his podcast Startalk actually
talked about the time dilation in the
film basically in this movie she isn't
going on a rocket and going really fast
she's going through a wormhole it's a
different kind of alien technology in a
worm
you don't travel through space really
fast instead you take a shortcut through
it now it's a thing that could exist but
it's so far just theoretical and it
works like folding a piece of paper in
half and poking a hole to connect the
two ends together then you cut the
distance in half making you move faster
than the speed of light and crossed far
distances very quickly it's possible
that in that kind of scenario time
dilation to work in the opposite way
which means time passes slower for
everyone else not you but I know
physicists so take that with a grain of
salt
who is Carl Sagan and why is he
important to the story Carl Sagan is
arguably one of the most famous
astronomers and scientists in the world
he was very famous for being a skeptic
and getting people into science with his
hey TV show cosmos where he would talk
about the sheer scale and scope of the
universe the majesty the Wonder and the
beauty we can find which by the way
deGrasse Tyson whom I just mentioned
that a modern version and it's also
excellent if you haven't seen it I
definitely recommend checking it out
Sagan also wrote the book that would
become the movie content he contribute a
lot to science acting as a member of a
committee for the Voyager probes he was
also the mind behind the golden records
that both Voyager probes had these
records that would record the sights and
sounds of earth our people our culture
our memories the proof that we were here
that any aliens who found approach could
analyze and know we were alive now the
interesting thing about the disc is that
it has two drawings of a human woman and
a man with a map to our solar system
implant that way if the aliens wants a
probe us the skip Uranus and comes
straight for us
that's right one of the first things we
said the aliens it real-life were
private cakes in our address what a
bunch of legends now Sagan was an
agnostic and although he was an
anti-religious he was definitely
skeptical in this viewpoint it's very
clear in the book which adds a little
more Hardy science than the romantic
hokey-pokey in weirdly religious ending
we got in a movie with these aliens
teasing us about this grand galactic
neighborhood only they take it away from
us which it brings it to the aspect of
this movie that could drive you up a
wall why are the aliens doing all this
just to leave no evidence why even
bother sending us the message in the
blueprints is it just a mess of us and
then there's that hokey feel-good
semi-religious ending about faith and
aliens we're totally those against say
gives views as ice kept UC Sega's the
kind of guy who would be open to an idea
so long as you can prove it and even
then it would have to be built on some
solid ground for example the follow
Occam's razor having a simple
explanation behind it's an idea that's
brought up twice
movie and this famous skepticism is very
clear and it's best seen in our hero
Ellie Arroway likes akin and she's a
scientist she's skeptical cautious not
to make assumptions while trying the
judge was true based on evidence like
both times she's asked in court
questions she'd be better off answering
with a lie when she's asked if she
believes in God and when she's asked if
she hallucinate of the journey
she's objective telling the truth even
though saying she doesn't believe in God
loses her the competition even though
she knows what she saw she's still able
to step back and judge her own
perception we skepticism this trade of
hers being objective makes her a great
scientist as a scientist she knows she
might have elucidated the whole journey
she has to accept that because she has
no hard evidence she would be lying if
she said otherwise yet she describes
having this experience that she can't
improve is really what feels like it is
going along to the themes of religion
and faith it's like an oxymoron and it
makes you wonder why would they do this
well remember how I mentioned that
people's reaction in this film to the
Indians being out there is a little
crazy that was actually a really severe
under reaction think about if we found
out aliens were real we would react way
worse like how in that book series the
three-body problem mankind almost
destroys itself from an alien invasion
but not from the aliens themselves
instead it's just from knowing that the
aliens are coming the aliens aren't even
in our galaxy yet but just knowing that
they are coming and they are out there
cause a society to break down and let's
be real if we discovered aliens were
real there would be chaos sure you'd
have that guy from blink-182 going yeah
I know it yeah I knew it i frickin knew
it but the true impact will be seen on
the scale of billions you'd have entire
religions having a crisis of faith and
truth with new religions worshipping
nihilism and the aliens themselves
taking up the space with tens if not
hundreds of millions of followers too
many people to count will just give up
why should you work so hard why should
you have kids you're not building a
better future not for long at any rate
punishments like going to prison for
life would also suddenly be a lot less
scary so why not break a few laws some
people will call for war even if the
aliens seem nice how nice can a
civilization that's much smarter than us
actually be to them
we're like ants do we treat ants nicely
worldwide it would be this massive
paradigm shift as this ever looming
threat comes closer to us maybe they're
not here to kill us maybe they are but
that anxiety that fear will just keep on
growing within us
and I wouldn't want anyone for being
freaked out an example this in history
is back in World War two
you see Imperial Japan's propaganda
machine said that if an American GI got
their hands on you they would pour to
you in the worst ways possible and there
are a lot of stories of Japanese
civilians who got caught up in war
offing themselves because of this fear
of American soldiers if that was just
people being scared of people it would
be way worse the threat was aliens great
old ones
Martians Grey's whatever aliens are out
there to them we're nothing if they
could reach us using FTL travel we would
be like monkeys or about to be hunted or
stomped out the aliens knew this even at
this game for years like the alien dad
said they've been sending elion these
blueprints and sending them to the
speech place telling them about the
second step and all of that stuff so
they use a small step plan now it's so a
lot of doubt in the minds of people and
that's the point they wanted to cause
doubt doubt is part of their plan that
way they keep things cool relaxed but
still say man kind of a path to deal
with all of this as in the end of the
movie said he actually does get more
money because the government knows but
the aliens are out there and it's best
to be ready for them it's all just a
stopgap to keep the planet Earth from
going into shock like when you're going
through a really traumatic experience
your body kind of goes into a safe mode
you begin to feel anxious organ whew we
can't lose focus and get erratic and as
we see it's a highly televised event and
everyone learns about it already we see
this plan works
those people dressed in blue adle he's
hearing believed and what she said of
course some people don't believe it for
those who do especially in the public
office they're making plans to deal with
the situation in advance plus slowly but
surely who will begin to accept this new
reality like Italy said it's like people
be able to fly an airplane we thought it
was impossible for a person to fly until
we did it so it's really not crazy to
say the same thing about aliens I mean
not only do we have the 18 hours of
static footage but any scientist who
wants to know more about this will find
out of the hearing was BS no earthly
satellite could fake the signal coming
from Vega they would find out so Michael
Kitz knowing what he has to do resigns
from his NSA position and makes it seem
like it's just yes and said he gets some
extra cash from the government this
stops people from panicking early and
helps us prepare for second contact
though as for the religious aspect and
let me be clear I'm not judging you if
you are religious I mean I was raised
religious but regardless of how you feel
about religion you got to admit religion
has been a constant framework for humans
for sin
shuri's it might not like it but Palmer
Joss isn't wrong when he said that most
of the world still is we've used it to
understand the world around us
explaining things in a supernatural way
to keep things down-to-earth making it
easier to understand the universe and
how it works by the Sun for example this
life-giving star that any lot of
religions or beliefs is a chief God or a
great spirit that gives life which can
be explained scientifically but before
we had the tools to do that religion was
used to be able to deal with not
understand this lens of religion and
belief is something that the aliens know
how to use using it to make the idea
that aliens are real easier to accept
it's a legitimate tool with 95% of the
world being religious in some way at
least until recently you might not be
religious but you still have to admit
it's a good way to get people to accept
something that for most would be too far
behind our understanding to deal with
mental like what Palmer says but in
Reverse
he said he's not against science so long
as it's used the right way well the
aliens are not against religion that so
long as it's used the right way so the
aliens are trying to use faith in
religion as a way to get us to accept
them exploiter this thinking as part of
their intergalactic plans look at their
actions for one it's my opinion but the
aliens may have even chosen Pelley I
think that the aliens would appreciate
Eliezer objectiveness I mean it was for
analysis of stars and signals that led
to the discovery of the Vegas something
which in real life sounds ridiculous
until you used Drake's equation to
calculate the millions of stars and
planets and galaxies out there four
hundred billion stars are out there just
in our galaxy alone with hundreds of
billions of more galaxies at least a few
of them should have life living on
nearby planets its second look at the
star they chose the aliens might not
even be vacants after all a star like
Vega is the best place for aliens to go
hey over here it's 26 light-years away
which is kind of close and it would be a
place that we would be looking at it
with our telescopes it's perfectly
believable but evil with other things
that might mess with a single reading a
place like that
it's almost walking distance on a
galactic scale and with the transporter
we could make the trip in seconds again
logical useful and built in a way that
gives us a framework for believing it
and making sense of it but there is one
more piece to this amazing puzzle and oh
my god if you made it this far I've got
a trade for you I'm about to put it all
together the whole point of this move is
to try to get you the audience thinking
about where you are how small we are
compared to white dwarfs and gas giants
the vastness of the universe in all
all the cool things that are out there
it's everything we do here almost
childish petty there's too much out
there waiting to be discovered why not
use the time spent fighting instead to
explore and see what's out there
the entry sequence really hits the nail
on the head with its visuals join us how
small and how vast spaces there's
probably tons of aliens or at least
planets out there where life can
flourish and evolve and the hell that's
something we can calculate using Drake's
equation and in case you didn't know
Drake's equation is this math formula
that takes a whole bunch of factors
rates of star formation fraction of
stars that can support life on nearby
planets the number of planets that can
support life the fraction of those
planets where life actually appears as
well as the number of those planets with
intelligent aliens then which of those
aliens can communicate beyond their
planet and finally the amount of time
these aliens send out signals all these
factors are multiplied against each
other one after another to find out how
many civilizations might be out there
who we can detect using our satellites
and telescopes to get a huge if
strangely small number because outer
space UV puts it into perspective it's
something that astronauts realize when
they're up in space and see our planet
it's this feeling that Elly has no words
to describe in court but wants to and
when she says I had no idea no idea and
then they ship sent a poet this
beautiful truth that we are so small we
are all we got this movie really
captures the essence a Sagan's famous
pale blue dot speech when the Voyager
probe left Earth's orbit shaking how to
take a picture of our planet and he
reflected in the speech on our history
our works and our defeats everything
that ever happened to us everyone that
ever was all of that fit into this tiny
blue dot we are so small in terms of
history and in size and so much blood
has been spilled over this small piece
of land so much anger and hate things
that are stopping us from going beyond
our world stopping us from joining the
other aliens and taking that second step
forward such a powerful image to teach
us some perspective and humility it's
very much an astounding life lesson from
Sagan but that this movie captures
beautifully that's the entire message on
the movie that pale blue dot speech what
idea huh it
everything about this movie together yes
be skeptical the universe but know its
beauty and try to let it make you strive
to be a better person and so finally
this brings me to a final point the
second step and why the transportation
system was created the alien the toxin
le makes it very clear that there's a
process to joining them and that we need
to take a second step before we can all
hold hands and sing Kumbaya so what is
it and how does the wormhole network
come into play there's a line of the
vacant says that answers have this
question humans are capable of such
incredible dreams in horrible nightmares
the vague ins in the intergalactic
community as a whole have probably made
peace there are no more wars between
their races and when they reach that
point they are allowed to join the club
but until then they're locked out and I
believe that same thing applied to us
once we put aside our differences we can
probably use the Machine again and be
sent back to meet the vacants who have
otherwise left us alone
that's what the transporter system it's
in that ancient aliens built up the
network and probably did to the vacants
what they did to us sending us
blueprints and having a talk if not
these precursors then another race
following along the lines of Sega's
philosophy I think the transportation
system was created to unify all the
races in the universe a grand gesture of
unity among aliens at least that's what
I get from the movie but the book
explains that the vagin said the other
aliens are trying to team with together
to stop entropy the heat death of the
universe from happening if you don't
know what that means
basically there's gonna come a time when
everything just Scrolls down no heat no
energy no life in the vacants along with
the other aliens are doing things in the
universe that slows us down in the
transportation system is implied though
being created by either ancient aliens
or maybe even God who gave the aliens
the network in doing so the vague ins
had become these religious scientists
who were trying to prove the existence
of God through scientific means finding
proof in the physical universe that the
universe is something that was made and
they do having found evidence in a
really long calculation of Pi which is
how the book ends with Ellie discovering
this proof bridging the gap between
science and religion and I guess that's
kind of the takeaway here there's a lot
more to the world that we don't know a
lot that we have yet to understand our
seat but in time we can understand the
mysteries of the space and time we can
know why we haven't found
aliens out there and maybe in time even
more at least when we've taken that
second step we will one day there will
be no absence of evidence
one day the theoretical to become the
real and one day my parents will think
this is a real job and then they'll be
proud of me but it will take time time
that we should spend wisely on things
that will keep us together and move us
forward before the universe cools down
and all the warmth goes away for all the
answers go away and we're left all alone
we're all we got to discover that aliens
are out there with that said thank you
so much for watching if you enjoyed the
video leave a like down below and
subscribe to too updated on my latest
videos this is Charlie Sierra whisky
Romeo hotel 73 to you until next time
[Music]